Need more improvement
Exactly what my autistic child needs, who has stronger reading skills than expressive skills. As promised, it's simple, quick to talk, and gives the user the option to create complete sentences which my child can read aloud to that other apps don't have. But, there are too many limitations/glitches:
1. Pls remove "new page" label from the Name, Caption, Text-to-Speech fields when adding a New Category, New Page, New Button. Or fade it out and allow us to write over it (eg: Netflix search field). It's a pain to have to backspace or select all/delete when adding info to this page.
2. Please add a delete option that can delete everything in the Name, Caption, Text-to-Speech fields such as creating a "x" delete button.
3. Please include a "Back" or "Cancel" button on the edit pages of the New Category, New Page, and New Button so that I have the option to change my mind about not saving the new changes or not adding a new category/page/button. The only way to back out of the edit page is to hit "save" which then kicks me out of the app completely.
4. Plus, if I don't have any info added to the Name, Caption, Text-to-Speech fields, the app crashes.
5. Every time I try to add a New Category, the app crashes. I have only created 3 categories and the app is already having a hard time handling extras.
6. Please give us an option to choose Not to create categories.
7. Please add an option to copy and paste a Button from one category to another category.
8. Please give user the option to "save to icloud" so that we don't lose all the info we have created when our device crashes, when we change to a new device, when we want to add a new device. Example, the option to use my child's iPod or my iPhone and not carry the bulky iPad with us on trips, and not forced to recreate the content in order to do that.
Thank you for your consideration. I am willing to pay extra for the requested updates.
A great and simple to use app!!
The ability to communicate is an essential life skill to have. It is important for my students with communication difficulties to be able to communicate basic needs and wants independently. It is also important for my students to have engaging conversations with their peers. Quick Talk facilitates this experience where my students can do both.
My students with low muscle tone and who have trouble coordinating the muscles find the two-option layout in Quick Talk easier to access and navigate information independently. The students begin by personalizing their Quick Talk settings, practice accessing their desired information with help and then work towards accessing the information on their own.
Quick Talk also facilitates a natural flow of conversation between peers and staff. Some students won't stay long enough to hear what the student with communication difficulties has to say. Using Quick Talk, students can access their information faster, allowing the students to engage in longer conversations.
The arrows on the screen are a helpful visual tool for the students to be able o now where to navigate throughout Quick Talk. Great app!!
A must-have for SLP's
I love this app! As a speech-language pathologist I've seen many AAC apps and this is the first that I've been able to use within minutes. It took me about 5 minutes to learn how to program the device and use it. I can use it with several of the students on my caseload, all with varying degrees of communication challenges, for Yes/No questions, simple choices, inclusion during circle times, classroom participation, and more. I don't have to switch devices or apps, I can just use Quick Talk. The teachers are able to program this app easily and it doesn't take several training sessions to implement use with their students. This app is able to bridge the gap between communicating basic wants and needs and complex phrases/sentences. It's the quickest way for providing someone with quick, functional communication.
High Hopes Here
I am a 20 year old college student, who has been friends with, and has worked with children/young adults who are verbally challenged with special needs for over 10 years. Using this app the last few days, I am impressed with the extreme amount of customizability. I can really see this becoming my friends main way of communication, in the palm of his hand! I am very hopeful for this app to be a huge relief in communication! Already the last 3 days we have been able to communicate much quicker and much easier, smiling every time we customize a new box!