Tap images. Type words. Speak. Proloquo2Go is an easy to use communication app for people who cannot speak or need help being understood. Featuring natural sounding voices, including real children’s voices, Proloquo2Go is a simple yet powerful AAC (augmentative and alternative communication) tool. The app is fully customizable and can be utilized to build language skills and grow with a person’s communication, supporting both beginning and advanced communicators. 

 

Parents, therapists, teachers and users around the world recognize Proloquo2Go as the gold standard in AAC solutions. The app is used by people with autism, Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, Angelman syndrome, and others with speech difficulties. The app is available in English, Spanish, French, and Dutch and supports bilingual use, so you can switch languages on the fly. 

Learn and grow 

Studies show that just 200-400 words make up 80% of what we say. Known as core words, they act as the basis of Proloquo2Go’s research-based Crescendo™ vocabulary. Users can grow from single words to full sentences in the same app. Crescendo puts core words in consistent locations for easy access and motor-planning. The vocabulary works with AAC best practices like modeling (where you use an AAC system to talk with the user) to develop language skills. Crescendo offers no limit on language development with a 10,000+ fringe word vocabulary and customizable vocabulary levels. Finally, with Progressive Language, words are gradually revealed step-by-step, helping users learn words and their location as their communication expands. 

 
Easy editing 

Customizing Proloquo2Go is a breeze! Quickly and easily add new words. Use the app’s built-in library of 25,000 symbols or use your own photos by taking pictures within the app or selecting them from your photo library. For users with fine-motor challenges and vision impairments, Proloquo2Go offers options like 23 pre-programmed grid sizes and accessibility settings which support switch scanning and Apple’s VoiceOver screen reader. Everything from appearance to access is customizable so you can make it your own. 
 

Type and speak 

Besides tapping images, Proloquo2Go also lets you type what you want to say. The app includes a Grid Keyboard arranged alphabetically for people learning to type. For more experienced typists, Proloquo2Go includes a Typing View with a QWERTY keyboard and word prediction that offers suggestions based on what you are typing. 
 

Hello! 

Proloquo2Go lets you select a language and region for the Crescendo vocabulary. Two languages can be used at the same time, allowing seamless bilingual speech. Over 100 included downloadable natural-sounding adult and children’s voices rounds out your choices to use the app your way. 

A helping hand 

AssistiveWare is here for you every step of the way. Help articles in Proloquo2Go are there whenever you need them. New to AAC? Our website has easy to understand articles in the Learn AAC section, and the AssistiveWare Core Word Classroom includes activities for teaching communication effectively. You can also connect directly with our community of parents, professionals, and users on our Facebook groups. If you have any questions, our support team is available 7 days a week and is always happy to help. All of these online resources can be accessed by going to the AssistiveWare website. 