This Is A Classroom Dream Come True 

I've used MyTalkTools in my classroom for a long time and love it. In fact, it just keeps getting better because the company listens to its users and keeps adding features. MyTalk is perfect for teaching and assessing my students on the lowest one percent level. They are slow learners but can and do learn. 

As a music teacher, MyTalkTools is the only app that can make DJs and VJs out of any student who can select by eye gaze or touch. Via Apple TV add the image or video to an LCD screen and pump the sound through a sound system. Cool! 

Additionally MyTalk can mimic the alternate assessment my state has where there are three answers and if a student selects the incorrect answer, the choice disapears allowing the student to try again from two choices. Naturally students give an iPad more attention than the boaring black and white line drawings used for testing. 

At one school show I programmed all the comments that an MC would say so students could run the show with a touch of a finger. The acapela voice was so good that someone asked who the MC was when she watched the show on closed circuit TV. The cameraman didn't pick up the students so she didn't have an idea is was students using MyTalkTools! 

I've even made a board for myself in case of the event that one day I might need to communicate let's say where pain is but can't talk. As magical as it sounds, people with a degenerative condition can "bank" their voice for the future. 

The free version will give you an idea of if it's for you. Because MyTalkTools has so many features there is a learning curve but the tutorials are well made. Start small and your find before long, you will be full of implimentation ideas. Good luck and have fun! 
 

June 2016 Update 

MyTalkTools had continued to listen to its users through the years. There are more features than ever and they are easier to use. To the novice MyTalkTools may not look like much from its simple framework. The beauty is the simplicity of use for the board creator and the end user. Once the basics are mastered there are lots of attribuites to explore. 

I love being able to save units of work throughout the school year and return to them later with the option to edit them to meet new students needs. 

More updates! MyTalkTools can mimic the expensive, dangerous (infrared) eye gaze systems (they can cause seizures) by using the camera that faces the user to "look" for eyes dwelling on a cell or "looking" for an eye wink movement to use as a mouse click. It has been working for my students with severe cognitive disabilities and physical challenges. They get SO excited then they can actually control something. Note that one needs good lighting and a background that isn't busy visually. MyTalkTools is still my go to tool in my classroom. 

  

wow, what a great app 

This is for my son, who's 26, has autism and is noverbal. He uses facilitated communication, but only with a few people. He was able to get himself past the stage of throwing his device or flipping it up into the facilitator's face, so he has earned himself an ipad. I only tried one other app before this one, but it was much less expensive and didn't do very much. This is really the perfect app for him. He could locate and tap his pictures independently, with no physical prompts. No training was required; he just jumped right in. I love how you can keep adding layers to the conversation. We use photos of his own possessions, his own body, and himself doing the different activities that he might request. For menu items, we use clipart from the actual restaurants. Commercial entities cannot do this because of copyright restrictions; that's why they end up with those infantile line drawings that the users hate so much. Importing photos from the ipad photo album, his facebook page, and the restaurant websites was easy and fast. You can get friends to add in the voice, or use the synth voice that is already there. I programmed everything in without having to go to a user manual even once, that's how intuitive it is. You people really did your homework. 

My Talk Tools 

Hi Everyone!! 

I have been in education for 20 + years serving as a teacher associate. I've held a state Paraeducator certificate since 2000. 

This will be my 6 th year working with a student who has intellectual and communication disabilities. We are now in High School. We have tried several communication tools and we were thrilled to find MYTALK TOOLS about 3 years ago!!!! 

I have been able to customize MyTalk boards for my student's use and unique needs. I don't have to weed through myriads of "stuff " to find what my student will/can use. 

These are some of the ways we use MyTalk Tools @ home, school and in community: 

order favorite foods when dining out 

Answer yes/no class questions as well as A,B,C,D,E options, and counting to 20. 

oral class reports 

Compliment and/or greet family, friends, class mates & staff 

Ask for help, bathroom, express feelings and needs 

She can tell others: 

favorite movies or movies she wants to watch 

about family, contact information, age and school she attends 

What recreational activities she enjoys 

About weekend activities 

SLP 

I have used MyTalk for my nonverbal clients for 4 years now. It has helped my clients become more independent at work and in the community. I use the professional workspace to quickly make communication cells on a variety of subjects (wants and needs, ordering in a restaurant, activities to choose from while at dayhab and at home, places to go in the community, etc.) Each board is individualized for every client. The professional workspace is a breeze to use. Any problems I have encountered (only a few times in the 4 years of use) have been quickly remedied by Bick or Kevin. 

Revolutionizes my classroom 

I cannot say enough good things about this app. It has opened doors in the communication realm for my students with significant disabilities. It not only gives my students a voice they didn't have before, but engages them in learning. This app is easy to use and has countless customization options. Customer service is amazing. Any issue I've ever had has been swiftly resolved by their wonderful staff. 

Like this app! 

I originally downloaded So Much 2 Say and loved it but did not realize that it was an iPad only. But I looked for an alternative and found this. I am liking this app more and more every day. My 2 1/2 year old grandson is picking it up pretty well. 

Love it!!! 

Love My Talk!! Its so user friendly, you can customize to fit your needs, an inexpensive option to allow your child be able to communicate successfully!! My son loves his My Talk too!!!! 

Great AAC Option 

This a a very good app for augmentative communication. The interface is very well layed out, and there are a lot of customizations that can be implented to support diverse AAC user needs.  

Well-conceived app 

The main reason I like this, apart from very clean and simple boards that are highly responsive, is that is intelligently backed up and synchronized with a web-based authoring environment. It is only a matter of time before the iPad is stolen, dropped, or missing. With this software, you get your new device, type in a name and password, and voila--your boards are re-downloaded. It's a great concept. 

There is a bit of an initial learning curve, but once you learn it, it's pretty straight forward. Took me a couple hours before I felt comfortable, but now it seems fine. 

When there's a field of 2, the images are nice and huge and fill most of the space, rather than most apps where you're limited to a tiny square. 

Also, you can create boards and sub-boards galore, so the hierarchy of language starts to make sense, and become usable, vs other programs, where it's a flat hierarchy. 
Also, with this app, you can import pictures from the web incredibly easily just by typing a keyword search. For examble, we buy a certain brand of yogurt, and i typed that brand into MyTalk Mobile's web search, and a picture of the package instantly appeared, well photographed, clean, etc. I just selected it, and it worked great. 

For teachers and speech pathologists, you can have multiple sets of boards for multiple clients, and copy and paste boards and sub-boards. Since boards are synced with a web-based authoriing workspace, you can replicate these boards on ANY iPhone or iPad simply by typing in a username and password. For example, a client can have access to their board on their i-device, and you can log in as them on your own iPad and instantly pull up their board. It's pretty cool. They've really thought it through. 

The responsiveness is great--as soon as you press the picture, you hear the sound, and the picture "blinks" to give you visual feedback. 

Downsides: 

1) When authoring new boards on the iPad, seems slightly buggy--when pasting cells, it seems to create an endless loop. But you quickly figure out workarounds, but it seems like a lot of extra pointing and clicking. 

2) The web authoring environment is great in concept, though it is quite pokey. I find it faster to author on the iPad, which is ironic, because they created the web authoring environment to enable faster authoring. 

I am a speech pathologist and use this app with a couple of my pts. I love the affordability of this app the only complaint I have is that you can't delete and add cells on the iPad without changing the whole board. The only way I've found to delete and add cells without changing the board is using the online workspace, however it cost more money every month! Would continue to recommend this app for my pts if that could be fixed making it easier to modify boards without using workspace. Some of my pts can barely afford the iPad plus app not including the added fee of workspace! Can we get an update to make adding and deleting cells easier? 

Thank you very much for creating this FREE version 

I know that you guys have been Pioneers on creating apps for individuals with disabilities. As a Speech therapist I have to recognize the importance of giving a "voice" to those who struggle with communication at a affable price. You guys are definitely revolutionizing this field by providing affordable access to AAC. Way to go! 

I can finally talk!! 

This is a great app! I'm an SLP working in rehab and home care. Not all our patients need or can afford a device that costs thousands. It is easy to use and family can easily learn how to customize it even more after they are trained. Because the app is affordable, it is easy to convince facilities and families to purchase it. I will always remember the first time my patient used it to say "I love you" to her son after years of saying only "Yes, yes!" Thank you for the wonderful tool!! 

  

Giving dad his voice back 

I scoured the internet for an app to help my dad communicate despite his aphasia. I am not even sure how I stumbled on this app. It was a little tricky at first getting it set up but I went on a computer and within a few minutes I was happy to be on my way to setting it up. I can make changes remotely and love how my mom and dad can benefit from the changes immediately. I also appreciate a free 30 day trial to see if this continues to be a perfect fit. 

Can not use app 

I was referred by my son speech therapist, but app is not allowing me to create an account . 

A MUST!!!!! 

Amazing program! I am an AT Specialist and this program is amazing. It can obviously be used as a communication tool, but can also be customized for anything, including choice boards, IEP goals, schedules, and anything else you can imagine. 

The customer service for this app is also second to none. I have asked questions and the response is lightning quick. They are patient and kind when responding. And the fact that the program uses the cloud to back up the data is so much easier and well thought out than using another program that uses Dropbox. You simply put in your user name and password and your data is there. I cannot recommend this highly enough for those who work with special Ed students or those with disabilities. Also in my opinion the workspace is totally worth the money. It makes it so much easier to program the students devices using workspace. 

Once again this is amazing product and I highly recommend it. 

Teachers of students with severe cognitive disabilities need this one 

I have used MyTalkTools in my classroom for two years. My colleagues have noticed how much more their students interact with curriculum content both on an independent level and a supported level. They have worked at getting iPads and this app into their classroom too. Do go through all the detailed training because this is a very powerful tool and can do a lot without investing a bit of time to understand it you can miss parts that may be very useful. 

With all the push to evaluate teachers on student achievement MyTalkTools can be a wonderful tool to help with communication and assessment of any curriculum if a student doesn't already have a communication device or alternate mode of communication. 

Try it out with Apple TV mirroring on your LCD projector for the whole class to follow along. 

Love this app 

Bick Pratt and his team of professionals have given one of my students a VOICE! Today I used the Lite version with my non verbal student. Just to see his face light up when he pressed his picture that said his name was priceless! Am anxious to see what else he can tell me with his "new voice"! Thanks for developing an easy to use app. You have designed it perfectly. One can see how many hours you have put into developing it. I like how I can add my voice and own pictures from my photos. The symbolix and public library are also a plus.I also like how the tutorials guide you through the process. My Talk Tools ROCK! 

My Talk Tools Lite 

I am a speech therapist using this app with my adult patients and I have found it an excellent tool to serve as an assistive communication device or as visual support for verbal communication. It is easy to set up and edit and makes use of your own photos, internet searches or icons and recorded speech or text-to-speech. I have found it easy to teach to family members and patients themselves. The technical support is excellent and my questions have been answered quickly and helpfully. I have used the workspace to set up boards for my patients which has been extremely useful. 

Revolutionizes my classroom 

I cannot say enough good things about this app. It has opened doors in the communication realm for my students with significant disabilities. It not only gives my students a voice they didn't have before, but engages them in learning. This app is easy to use and has countless customization options. Customer service is amazing. Any issue I've ever had has been swiftly resolved by their wonderful staff. 

Good app/not so good instructions 

I installed this app on my granddaughter's iPad. She is six and non verbal. Once I experimented with the app I found it was very easy to set up. The instructions were no help at all and when I tried to use the trial board website I was redirected to a form for my personal information. Once I saw I was unable to use the trial unless I provided my information I logged off and used the mobile app only. 