Technology has been evolving rapidly over the last decade. With the evolution of technology and the increased accessibility to various forms of technology comes the opportunity to explore social media as a means for alternative communication for people with complex speech needs.  Michael Williams,  who is a strong advocate for users of Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC), argued that “the time for AAC is now” . He argues that “Individuals with complex communication needs require more than one device, one communication partner, one communication strategy, one communication environment”  Using social media to communicate provides a unique opportunity for people with complex speech needs. The goal of using social media to support people with complex speech needs would not be to replace current systems but rather supplement the current systems with additional technology that better aligns with community values and motivations. Social media is embedded within our society. 

According to Statistics Canada in 2018, 77.6% of people in Canada were active social media users, in 2022 after Covid McKinnon reports that it has undoubtedly increased due to the pandemic. Spending time on social media apps, including but not limited to; Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Pinterest, and TikTok. It is no surprise that Statistics Canada reported that 81.3% of time spent online is for keeping up with friends and family. In a 2022 statistics report on social media use in Canada McKinnon (2022) concluded that 47% of the time spent online was spent communicating with friends and family.  As a culture it is evident that communicating with others online is valuable to us, so why not use it to expand communication opportunities for others with complex speech needs? As the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms states that each individual has the right to expression and communication, Something that people with complex speech needs are often denied due to lack of accessibility. 

Why does this matter to me? 

Simply put, I believe everyone should be able to communicate with others and it should be more widely accepted as a community. I have been fortunate enough to have training with several AAC software’s such as TouchChat/WordPower, NovaChat, and Proloquo2Go. Several challenges that I have faced time and time again when supporting a child who uses AAC are; lack of training for the people who will support the child using the device, accessing the devices and software, and lack of awareness. As stated by The Children’s Treatment Network (n.d.) “The success of any communication system is highly dependent upon the skills of the communication partners.” . This means that not only do the people using the communication device need to know how to navigate it, but the communication partners do as well. If the communication partner can not navigate the communication system, the communication will not be functional. Lack of functional communication can cause frustration and isolation . I believe social media can fill the gap so more people are able to be successful communication partners for people with complex speech needs. It can be argued that more people can navigate social media better than they can a AAC device. If the communication partner is as critical in the communication as the device itself, why not use a platform the communication partners are familiar with? To explore this opportunity, I want to inquire about how videos on social media apps can be used to support two way communication for people with complex speech challenges. I also wondered about the role social media videos could play in providing more awareness about AAC, providing education about AAC software’s to the community in hopes of teaching others to use and navigate AAC software to be able to be a communication partner. 