MyTalkTools is an award-winning app that enables over 100,000+ people with communication difficulties to express their needs and desires to those around them. A good solution for people with down syndrome, cerebral palsy, hearing or visual impairments, autism or other diagnoses that impair communication ability. It supports users, teachers, therapists, caregivers and parents with many innovative features. 

MyTalk Mobile is a complete stand-alone solution. No other software is required. But, we include a 30 day trial of MyTalk Workspace. Together, they represent a major breakthrough in augmentative alternative communications (AAC) by making it easy to customize how you communicate through a variety of images, video and audio files including human voice. The only solution that simultaneously supports browser, Apple Watch, Apple TV, iPhone, iPad and iTouch. 

In 5 minutes, you can download standard content, and customize it for your needs, to communicate in a way that YOU choose. MyTalk offers ease of use and time-savings in a portable, effective, and cool communication tool. Take the iTunes University Course, to see how simple it is. https://itunesu.itunes.apple.com/enroll/ERF-ASN-WAB 
 

Don’t worry about losing your device. All information is backed up on MyTalk Workspace. Every version you create is kept. Don’t worry about experimenting. You can always back up to almost any point in time with undo/redo or restore. 

Create and participate in family and professional communities by creating and sharing libraries of boards, cells, or other media with others. Get pre-programmed boards from our public submissions library. Share PDFs, or on-line working previews with parents, family members, or teachers through email or texts. Access to 20,000+ Symbolstix images. 

Many scanning features to customize to the user’s specific needs. Works directly with many popular switches and can be programmed to support most BT switches. Additional features for visual impairment and other physical limitations including auditory scanning and fine motor adjustments. Print hard copy for use without access to a device. Works without internet access. 

Keep core words in standard locations through our repeat function. Grammar support with word variants. Use Fitzgerald or Goosen encoding to categorize words. Use phrase bar to generate complete phrases. Use popup lists to customize variant selections or select simple choices. Popup keyboards for users to add custom words and phrases. Popup Recents, Most-Used or Predicted word lists for quick access to relevant choices. 

A free text-to-speech voice is included. 100 additional voices available as in-app purchase for most languages including English, Spanish, French, Chinese, Hebrew and others. Bi-lingual support – 2 TTS languages can be used simultaneously. 
 

20,000+ Symbolstix images. Photographs, videos and recorded audio are supported. Use videos to enable modeling. Download photos and images from your device, the web, or community libraries. 
 

Variable cell sizes, drag-and-drop arrangement, copy or link pages, user logging with geo-context to provide continuous refinement. Search MyTalkTools content using apple global search. Integrate with apps – like Pandora, FaceTime or others. Integrate pages with automatic reminders or geo-location reminders (Continued use of GPS running in the background can dramatically decrease battery life). Multiple authors can support a single page using our patented sync technology to merge all changes. Many, many user interface customization options. 

MyTalk LLC is a member of Moms with Apps, a collaborative group of family-friendly developers seeking to promote quality apps for kids and families. 

This Is A Classroom Dream Come True 

I've used MyTalkTools in my classroom for a long time and love it. In fact, it just keeps getting better because the company listens to its users and keeps adding features. MyTalk is perfect for teaching and assessing my students on the lowest one percent level. They are slow learners but can and do learn. 

As a music teacher, MyTalkTools is the only app that can make DJs and VJs out of any student who can select by eye gaze or touch. Via Apple TV add the image or video to an LCD screen and pump the sound through a sound system. Cool! 

Additionally MyTalk can mimic the alternate assessment my state has where there are three answers and if a student selects the incorrect answer, the choice disapears allowing the student to try again from two choices. Naturally students give an iPad more attention than the boaring black and white line drawings used for testing. 

At one school show I programmed all the comments that an MC would say so students could run the show with a touch of a finger. The acapela voice was so good that someone asked who the MC was when she watched the show on closed circuit TV. The cameraman didn't pick up the students so she didn't have an idea is was students using MyTalkTools! 

I've even made a board for myself in case of the event that one day I might need to communicate let's say where pain is but can't talk. As magical as it sounds, people with a degenerative condition can "bank" their voice for the future. 

The free version will give you an idea of if it's for you. Because MyTalkTools has so many features there is a learning curve but the tutorials are well made. Start small and your find before long, you will be full of implimentation ideas. Good luck and have fun! 
 

June 2016 Update 

MyTalkTools had continued to listen to its users through the years. There are more features than ever and they are easier to use. To the novice MyTalkTools may not look like much from its simple framework. The beauty is the simplicity of use for the board creator and the end user. Once the basics are mastered there are lots of attribuites to explore. 

I love being able to save units of work throughout the school year and return to them later with the option to edit them to meet new students needs. 

More updates! MyTalkTools can mimic the expensive, dangerous (infrared) eye gaze systems (they can cause seizures) by using the camera that faces the user to "look" for eyes dwelling on a cell or "looking" for an eye wink movement to use as a mouse click. It has been working for my students with severe cognitive disabilities and physical challenges. They get SO excited then they can actually control something. Note that one needs good lighting and a background that isn't busy visually. MyTalkTools is still my go to tool in my classroom. 

  

wow, what a great app 

This is for my son, who's 26, has autism and is noverbal. He uses facilitated communication, but only with a few people. He was able to get himself past the stage of throwing his device or flipping it up into the facilitator's face, so he has earned himself an ipad. I only tried one other app before this one, but it was much less expensive and didn't do very much. This is really the perfect app for him. He could locate and tap his pictures independently, with no physical prompts. No training was required; he just jumped right in. I love how you can keep adding layers to the conversation. We use photos of his own possessions, his own body, and himself doing the different activities that he might request. For menu items, we use clipart from the actual restaurants. Commercial entities cannot do this because of copyright restrictions; that's why they end up with those infantile line drawings that the users hate so much. Importing photos from the ipad photo album, his facebook page, and the restaurant websites was easy and fast. You can get friends to add in the voice, or use the synth voice that is already there. I programmed everything in without having to go to a user manual even once, that's how intuitive it is. You people really did your homework. 

My Talk Tools 

Hi Everyone!! 

I have been in education for 20 + years serving as a teacher associate. I've held a state Paraeducator certificate since 2000. 

This will be my 6 th year working with a student who has intellectual and communication disabilities. We are now in High School. We have tried several communication tools and we were thrilled to find MYTALK TOOLS about 3 years ago!!!! 

I have been able to customize MyTalk boards for my student's use and unique needs. I don't have to weed through myriads of "stuff " to find what my student will/can use. 

These are some of the ways we use MyTalk Tools @ home, school and in community: 

order favorite foods when dining out 

Answer yes/no class questions as well as A,B,C,D,E options, and counting to 20. 

oral class reports 

Compliment and/or greet family, friends, class mates & staff 

Ask for help, bathroom, express feelings and needs 

She can tell others: 

favorite movies or movies she wants to watch 

about family, contact information, age and school she attends 

What recreational activities she enjoys 

About weekend activities 

SLP 

I have used MyTalk for my nonverbal clients for 4 years now. It has helped my clients become more independent at work and in the community. I use the professional workspace to quickly make communication cells on a variety of subjects (wants and needs, ordering in a restaurant, activities to choose from while at dayhab and at home, places to go in the community, etc.) Each board is individualized for every client. The professional workspace is a breeze to use. Any problems I have encountered (only a few times in the 4 years of use) have been quickly remedied by Bick or Kevin. 

Revolutionizes my classroom 

I cannot say enough good things about this app. It has opened doors in the communication realm for my students with significant disabilities. It not only gives my students a voice they didn't have before, but engages them in learning. This app is easy to use and has countless customization options. Customer service is amazing. Any issue I've ever had has been swiftly resolved by their wonderful staff. 

Like this app! 

I originally downloaded So Much 2 Say and loved it but did not realize that it was an iPad only. But I looked for an alternative and found this. I am liking this app more and more every day. My 2 1/2 year old grandson is picking it up pretty well. 

Love it!!! 

Love My Talk!! Its so user friendly, you can customize to fit your needs, an inexpensive option to allow your child be able to communicate successfully!! My son loves his My Talk too!!!! 

Great AAC Option 

This a a very good app for augmentative communication. The interface is very well layed out, and there are a lot of customizations that can be implented to support diverse AAC user needs.  

Well-conceived app 

The main reason I like this, apart from very clean and simple boards that are highly responsive, is that is intelligently backed up and synchronized with a web-based authoring environment. It is only a matter of time before the iPad is stolen, dropped, or missing. With this software, you get your new device, type in a name and password, and voila--your boards are re-downloaded. It's a great concept. 

There is a bit of an initial learning curve, but once you learn it, it's pretty straight forward. Took me a couple hours before I felt comfortable, but now it seems fine. 

When there's a field of 2, the images are nice and huge and fill most of the space, rather than most apps where you're limited to a tiny square. 

Also, you can create boards and sub-boards galore, so the hierarchy of language starts to make sense, and become usable, vs other programs, where it's a flat hierarchy. 
Also, with this app, you can import pictures from the web incredibly easily just by typing a keyword search. For examble, we buy a certain brand of yogurt, and i typed that brand into MyTalk Mobile's web search, and a picture of the package instantly appeared, well photographed, clean, etc. I just selected it, and it worked great. 

For teachers and speech pathologists, you can have multiple sets of boards for multiple clients, and copy and paste boards and sub-boards. Since boards are synced with a web-based authoriing workspace, you can replicate these boards on ANY iPhone or iPad simply by typing in a username and password. For example, a client can have access to their board on their i-device, and you can log in as them on your own iPad and instantly pull up their board. It's pretty cool. They've really thought it through. 

The responsiveness is great--as soon as you press the picture, you hear the sound, and the picture "blinks" to give you visual feedback. 

Downsides: 

1) When authoring new boards on the iPad, seems slightly buggy--when pasting cells, it seems to create an endless loop. But you quickly figure out workarounds, but it seems like a lot of extra pointing and clicking. 

2) The web authoring environment is great in concept, though it is quite pokey. I find it faster to author on the iPad, which is ironic, because they created the web authoring environment to enable faster authoring. 

I am a speech pathologist and use this app with a couple of my pts. I love the affordability of this app the only complaint I have is that you can't delete and add cells on the iPad without changing the whole board. The only way I've found to delete and add cells without changing the board is using the online workspace, however it cost more money every month! Would continue to recommend this app for my pts if that could be fixed making it easier to modify boards without using workspace. Some of my pts can barely afford the iPad plus app not including the added fee of workspace! Can we get an update to make adding and deleting cells easier? 

Thank you very much for creating this FREE version 

I know that you guys have been Pioneers on creating apps for individuals with disabilities. As a Speech therapist I have to recognize the importance of giving a "voice" to those who struggle with communication at a affable price. You guys are definitely revolutionizing this field by providing affordable access to AAC. Way to go! 

I can finally talk!! 

This is a great app! I'm an SLP working in rehab and home care. Not all our patients need or can afford a device that costs thousands. It is easy to use and family can easily learn how to customize it even more after they are trained. Because the app is affordable, it is easy to convince facilities and families to purchase it. I will always remember the first time my patient used it to say "I love you" to her son after years of saying only "Yes, yes!" Thank you for the wonderful tool!! 

  

Giving dad his voice back 

I scoured the internet for an app to help my dad communicate despite his aphasia. I am not even sure how I stumbled on this app. It was a little tricky at first getting it set up but I went on a computer and within a few minutes I was happy to be on my way to setting it up. I can make changes remotely and love how my mom and dad can benefit from the changes immediately. I also appreciate a free 30 day trial to see if this continues to be a perfect fit. 

Can not use app 

I was referred by my son speech therapist, but app is not allowing me to create an account . 

A MUST!!!!! 

Amazing program! I am an AT Specialist and this program is amazing. It can obviously be used as a communication tool, but can also be customized for anything, including choice boards, IEP goals, schedules, and anything else you can imagine. 

The customer service for this app is also second to none. I have asked questions and the response is lightning quick. They are patient and kind when responding. And the fact that the program uses the cloud to back up the data is so much easier and well thought out than using another program that uses Dropbox. You simply put in your user name and password and your data is there. I cannot recommend this highly enough for those who work with special Ed students or those with disabilities. Also in my opinion the workspace is totally worth the money. It makes it so much easier to program the students devices using workspace. 

Once again this is amazing product and I highly recommend it. 

Teachers of students with severe cognitive disabilities need this one 

I have used MyTalkTools in my classroom for two years. My colleagues have noticed how much more their students interact with curriculum content both on an independent level and a supported level. They have worked at getting iPads and this app into their classroom too. Do go through all the detailed training because this is a very powerful tool and can do a lot without investing a bit of time to understand it you can miss parts that may be very useful. 

With all the push to evaluate teachers on student achievement MyTalkTools can be a wonderful tool to help with communication and assessment of any curriculum if a student doesn't already have a communication device or alternate mode of communication. 

Try it out with Apple TV mirroring on your LCD projector for the whole class to follow along. 

Love this app 

Bick Pratt and his team of professionals have given one of my students a VOICE! Today I used the Lite version with my non verbal student. Just to see his face light up when he pressed his picture that said his name was priceless! Am anxious to see what else he can tell me with his "new voice"! Thanks for developing an easy to use app. You have designed it perfectly. One can see how many hours you have put into developing it. I like how I can add my voice and own pictures from my photos. The symbolix and public library are also a plus.I also like how the tutorials guide you through the process. My Talk Tools ROCK! 

My Talk Tools Lite 

I am a speech therapist using this app with my adult patients and I have found it an excellent tool to serve as an assistive communication device or as visual support for verbal communication. It is easy to set up and edit and makes use of your own photos, internet searches or icons and recorded speech or text-to-speech. I have found it easy to teach to family members and patients themselves. The technical support is excellent and my questions have been answered quickly and helpfully. I have used the workspace to set up boards for my patients which has been extremely useful. 

Revolutionizes my classroom 

I cannot say enough good things about this app. It has opened doors in the communication realm for my students with significant disabilities. It not only gives my students a voice they didn't have before, but engages them in learning. This app is easy to use and has countless customization options. Customer service is amazing. Any issue I've ever had has been swiftly resolved by their wonderful staff. 

Good app/not so good instructions 

I installed this app on my granddaughter's iPad. She is six and non verbal. Once I experimented with the app I found it was very easy to set up. The instructions were no help at all and when I tried to use the trial board website I was redirected to a form for my personal information. Once I saw I was unable to use the trial unless I provided my information I logged off and used the mobile app only. 
Tap images. Type words. Speak. Proloquo2Go is an easy to use communication app for people who cannot speak or need help being understood. Featuring natural sounding voices, including real children’s voices, Proloquo2Go is a simple yet powerful AAC (augmentative and alternative communication) tool. The app is fully customizable and can be utilized to build language skills and grow with a person’s communication, supporting both beginning and advanced communicators. 

 

Parents, therapists, teachers and users around the world recognize Proloquo2Go as the gold standard in AAC solutions. The app is used by people with autism, Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, Angelman syndrome, and others with speech difficulties. The app is available in English, Spanish, French, and Dutch and supports bilingual use, so you can switch languages on the fly. 

Learn and grow 

Studies show that just 200-400 words make up 80% of what we say. Known as core words, they act as the basis of Proloquo2Go’s research-based Crescendo™ vocabulary. Users can grow from single words to full sentences in the same app. Crescendo puts core words in consistent locations for easy access and motor-planning. The vocabulary works with AAC best practices like modeling (where you use an AAC system to talk with the user) to develop language skills. Crescendo offers no limit on language development with a 10,000+ fringe word vocabulary and customizable vocabulary levels. Finally, with Progressive Language, words are gradually revealed step-by-step, helping users learn words and their location as their communication expands. 

 
Easy editing 

Customizing Proloquo2Go is a breeze! Quickly and easily add new words. Use the app’s built-in library of 25,000 symbols or use your own photos by taking pictures within the app or selecting them from your photo library. For users with fine-motor challenges and vision impairments, Proloquo2Go offers options like 23 pre-programmed grid sizes and accessibility settings which support switch scanning and Apple’s VoiceOver screen reader. Everything from appearance to access is customizable so you can make it your own. 
 

Type and speak 

Besides tapping images, Proloquo2Go also lets you type what you want to say. The app includes a Grid Keyboard arranged alphabetically for people learning to type. For more experienced typists, Proloquo2Go includes a Typing View with a QWERTY keyboard and word prediction that offers suggestions based on what you are typing. 
 

Hello! 

Proloquo2Go lets you select a language and region for the Crescendo vocabulary. Two languages can be used at the same time, allowing seamless bilingual speech. Over 100 included downloadable natural-sounding adult and children’s voices rounds out your choices to use the app your way. 

A helping hand 

AssistiveWare is here for you every step of the way. Help articles in Proloquo2Go are there whenever you need them. New to AAC? Our website has easy to understand articles in the Learn AAC section, and the AssistiveWare Core Word Classroom includes activities for teaching communication effectively. You can also connect directly with our community of parents, professionals, and users on our Facebook groups. If you have any questions, our support team is available 7 days a week and is always happy to help. All of these online resources can be accessed by going to the AssistiveWare website. 

A must have speech device 

The Proloquo2Go app on my son device is the best app you can get,with my son having Down Syndrome & Kleinfelter Syndrome it’s a double whammy when it comes to speech as both disabilities have speech problems and this device with the app helps my son a lot I’m able to add things like taking a picture of his mom,dad ,brothers and sister with there names you can take your own pictures and add them and pick a voice to go with it ,I even added our phone number to our pictures and added our address ,you can also delete items on there you know they will or may not use which I have done I’ve also added certain favorite snacks my son likes,foods,people and so on its very easy to use once you get the hang of we’re what goes and what each item is under you can even pick the amount of pictures you want on ease grid and the size as well ,I am so glad my sons speech therapist she took care of all the paper work for my sons insurance to cover his device ,the device also comes with a strong rugged case with a stand which opens and closes and alphas a strong handle and 2 different length straps so you can wear the device with the app across your body so you don’t loose it,I highly recommend this device with the proloquo2go app for all kids and adults with Speech problems it has helped my son a lot he doesn’t get frustrated no more when you cannot understand what he says or to others. 

Great app! 

Happy that such an app exists. Our toddler who we suspected to be on the spectrum before his second birthday has been using this app for about the past 6 months. He turned three not long ago and has been learning how to communicate using the app with the help of his therapists. I really like that it can be customized for early learners such as my toddler. The only reason I give it four stars is because he uses this app on the iPad, but for some reason he has trouble swiping up/down for some reason even after we try to show him over and over again. We were told it’s probably a fine motor issue. For now, we all swipe the page for him to access the rest of his icons. I would love it if the ability to swipe left to right were included since he is able to do that with no problem. 

Crucial app 

My granddaughter is essentially non-verbal. For years, 11 to be exact, we have tried to give her a voice. We thought because she can repeat that she would eventually began to talk. To our dismay it did not happen. Finally with the advice from a girlfriend I decided she needed a communication device. I purchased a iPad mini and loaded Proloquo2Go on it. She is picking it up fairly well to my delight. This program on the recommended intermediate is so expansive. I love how you can customize it. I wish I had done this years ago because we would be on a better speech ground by now. Please to all who have similar circumstances do not delay whether the child has speech or not make the worthwhile purchase of a speech program. This program is certainly affordable and can be utilized into adulthood!! 

Very simple to manage! 

This app is extremely versatile. You can use a library of pictures, take pictures from within the app, and even choose photos from your device’s album. There are multiple voices avail which you can customize the characteristics of each. You can make it as simple or complex as you want. We started with just a few icons for our cognitively disabled son and gradually increased the grid to (currently) like 6x8 grid of icons. He knows it’s layout better than we do. 

This is an awesome app with awesome support both through developer and a Facebook users support page! I highly recommend this app. 

If you feel your iPad is not loud enough with a protective case, there are amplified iPad cases you can buy elsewhere. 

Best communication app available 

I use the app I totally recommend it! The app is the best one out there for communication and has so many voices you can add your own images other ones I’ve seen the voices are seoprate the app is easy to navigate and figure out you can add words change pronounces which I love you can add folders which is helped me figure out were all of the things are though. I use this to communicate becuase I cant speak its the perfect app though not that expensive compared to the other ones I’ve see. The only thing I wish that I could turn off is the news for the app since it drives me crazy to get notifications about new update please make a setting to turn that off other than that it’s good app 

So versatile in helping my loved one communicate! 

My niece has had Proloquo2Go since she was 5, heading in to kindergarten. She is now 14, ready to start high school. At 5 years old, this app helped her communicate her wants and spared all of us the frustration of playing 20 questions in order to figure out what she needed or wanted. It has only grown since then. It has helped her speech. She often tries to repeat what she has made it say for her. Lately, she types into the app and listens to it speak what she has typed. She loves telling me what to add to it and what pictures she wants used for each button. Proloquo2Go is one of her best tools that assist her speech and communication. Thank you! 

A Positive Behavior Modifier and Freedom Giver 

As a multi-disabled woman who is nonverbal, deaf, partially blind, mild autistic and slightly physically disabled, I found this app, Proloquo2Go a helpful in modifying my behavior to match my age in a positive way and liberates me from using communication partner (the interpreter) by giving me the degree of freedom to communicate with the hearing people while I am on trip for various activities such as shopping. This app was very helpful in preparing me for open our world to prove that I can freely communicate with whoever as I am on go. I believe this app has given me the increased degree of independence of communication and social time. It has given me many positive avenues for shaping my future life through undergo a positive behavior modification and positive social time. 

A voice for K. 

We have been using this app for 7 years and love it! We appreciate how easy it is to program and use. I researched for several months before making the purchase for home use. This was the highest recommended at the time. Our son is 20 and non verbal unless prompted to say something. He quickly figured out he could make food and beverage choices which was very motivating for him. We even have it programmed for fast food choices. He also uses it to select leisure activity choices. 

I highly recommend this app! Our previous device was heavy, slow to start and cost $7,000. The iPad, app and protective case was well under $1,000. 

  

Life Changing 

I am a verbal autistic and schizophrenia-spectrum college student who is more and more frequently losing speech and has what appears to be progressive cognitive disability. Proloquo2Go has been a life changer. I frequently use it to talk to my friends over Discord by constructing my messages on it and reading replies on a different device. I also use it to talk to my roommates, and I'm slowly getting the courage to use it in more and more situations. My only criticism is I wish it had a dark mode or a dimmer background, since the white hurts my eyes and exacerbates my tics after a while. Highly recommend, worth every penny. 

Autistic adult 

I am an autistic woman who was originally nonverbal and forced to speak in different therapies. They would drill me to repeat different phrases but I felt like I was saying nothing because I was just repeating what other people wanted me to say. I use all of the different assistiveware apps in different communication situations. They listened to autistic people and converted our natural dialect and communications into apps that really work for us. For the first time since I was seven years old, I finally found my authentic autistic voice. I am myself again. Thank you autistic community and thank you assistiveware. 
TouchChat HD for iPad is a full-featured communication solution for individuals who have difficulty using their natural voice. TouchChat is designed for individuals with Autism, Down Syndrome, ALS, apraxia, stroke, or other conditions that affect a person's ability to use natural speech.
TouchChat fits into the category of assistive technology known as Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) and includes features that were previously only available in much more expensive dedicated devices. Words, phrases and messages are spoken with a built-in voice synthesizer or by playing recorded message. Five US English and 2 British English synthesized voices are available, allowing the user to choose a voice that fits their own personality. TouchChat also has a unique feature whereby one can simply tilt the device to make the message expand to fill the screen in large letters. This feature allows a person to communicate silently or in a noisy environment. TouchChat gives an individual the ability to navigate through page sets and speak messages. Page sets are linked pages, each of which is divided into a number of buttons. The buttons are programmed to have specific actions. For example, buttons may be programmed to speak a message, navigate to a different page, change the volume or clear the display. Four page sets are included with the TouchChat: VocabPC, MultiChat-15, Primary and Spelling. Each page set targets individuals with different communication needs. Additional page sets including WordPower and Essence are available as in-app purchases.
Text generated with TouchChat pages can be shared on Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr or via text message and email. It's simple too, just generate a message, push on the text and choose a service. Touch send and the message is automatically posted.
Text from other applications can be copied to TouchChat so that it can be spoken out loud. Also, text generated in TouchChat can be copied to other applications.
The pages, grid layout, buttons, messages, and symbols are fully customizable. Buttons can be easily rearranged by simply dragging them to the desired new location. Buttons can be copied and pasted into a different location. The styling of a button (colors, borders, fonts) can be copied and pasted into another button.
Provided page sets can be modified to create new custom page sets. Select from over 30 button actions when creating new buttons. Over 10,000 Symbolstix symbols are included for customizing buttons. Use any image or take a photo with the built-in camera. Gestures can also be used to navigate to new pages, speak messages, etc.
Button activation timing can be adjusted to meet the needs and capabilities of the user. Adjustments include button dwell time and button release time. Also buttons can be configured to activate on release.
Users can program buttons to play audio files such as music from the media library or video files from the Photo Roll.
Great measures have been taken to protect custom files. Vocabulary files can be imported and exported to a computer using the iTunes file sharing feature. TouchChat also enables users to subscribe to iShare and store custom files for safe keeping, or choose to share customized pages with an Online community.
Note: iPhone and iPod users should purchase TouchChat-AAC for iPhone and iPod.

I am working with a 9 year old who has an iPad with the TouchChat application on it. I see her for outside private speech therapy. Her device is owned by school and they are the sole programmers of the device. It appears that they deleted the WordPower42 vocabulary in order to use the cells/grid to program in their own words. Some of the words include: go, away, different, want, more, not, yes, no, feel, feelings, eat, drink. She has 2 buttons that open up to fringe vocabulary: drink—>juice, water; sensory—>music, squeezes. There is no “clear” button. There are no colors for the backgrounds of the cells. Dad and her outside therapy team including myself would like to add additional vocabulary to her device as well as vocabulary that will allow her to use her device for a variety of communicative functions (greetings, answering personal questions, commenting, directing others). My clinical recommendation is to use the actual WordPower42 vocabulary pageset that is part of the TouchChat application. However, I want to do this in the most positive and collaborative way. I would like to have as much research, evidence, and data to support my recommendation. I’m just wondering if anyone else has come across this (using TouchChat as a means for an electronic custom core board) or have done this themselves and could provide me some insight as to the benefits of doing this. Does anyone have any research supporting the TouchChat vocabularies and how they were designed? Sorry, I don't have time to write you as detailed a reply as I'd like but here are my initial thoughts: So they've deleted all of the vocabulary from TouchChat and limited her to just 10 buttons? Is that right? Is there a school SLP involved that you can collaborate with? Was she able to access the buttons on the original page set up? How was she using it? It sounds like if you are recommending that she continue using WP42 setup that you feel that she was using it ok, or that she can learn to use it, so I agree that she should continue with that.Typically, you would choose number of buttons on a page based on what person can see and physically access NOT based on receptive or cognitive ability. Yes, starting with core vocabulary is a great, fantastic, fabulous idea. Yes yes yes to core! By teaching core vocabulary, you're teaching your client to be able to communicate about anything and that is so powerful! By limiting her to just 10 or so buttons, she has less opportunity to communicate, she has less things to communicate about and you're not teaching sentence construction, only single words. It's always best to start with MORE vocabulary than you think your student knows and then build up. Think about it-- when we speak to typically developing children, we don't limit ourselves to only speaking about 10 different items. We keep our sentences simple and concrete but we speak using a range of vocabulary. By repeating over and over, children learn. The same way, a child with AAC needs to have access to a range of vocabulary words and see utterances modelled for them over and over. Another reason to start with a bigger page setup like the 42 button one, is because AAC users will learn the location of buttons and remember them which takes some of the cognitive load off of using a device. If your students only starts with 10 buttons, then when she learns those and they expand to 20, all the buttons will change place and she will need to learn them all over again. That would be like someone changing the letters on your keyboard -- you would need to spend so much time looking for they keys that it would detract from your message. Look up LAMP -- language acquisition through motor planning -- for more info. on this.
If they think that 42 buttons are somehow overwhelming, you can "hide" buttons in the settings. WordPower for TouchChat was developed by Nancy Inman, who is an SLP who specializes in AAC. The pages are set up to allow the user to create novel utterances with core vocabulary.
When I have a minute, I will send you some resources. Some places where I would start: praacticalaac.org She has 5 tangible items she can request and about 10 core vocabulary just thrown about the device. It is not a designated vocabulary set that TouchChat has. The problem we have right now is the school team. They are in charge of the device and have programmed this. I had access for a month and added more tangible items because her cognitive level is very low compared to the core vocab. When trying to collaborate with the school SLP, we have had a VERY hard time establishing a working relationship. We have this school SLP for a few clients in our clinic and she has made it virtually impossible to get anything done together. She seems to have a power complex that is effecting the clients in general. We have parents involved and have made it clear to them that we do not recommend with this vocabulary set. The SLP "expanded" her vocabulary back in September but also removed many preferred items and added strange core vocabulary such as "not" and "already". Those to me seemed like completely unnecessary additions since she is not independently or consistently using any core vocabulary besides "want" and sometimes "eat" Hi guys! I’m trying to help a mom fix the pronunciation of a word on her touchchat device. (It’s teletherapy so I can’t play around it with myself unfortunately... I feel like I just need to get my hands on it and do some trial and error) Anyway, we’re trying to get it to more accurately pronounce “dada” (like what a little kid would call their dad.) As is it comes out sounding like the inflection of ‘ta-da!’ I’ve suggested lots of other vowel combos and spellings but no luck. Any help would be appreciated! I even had mom copy and paste the IPA symbol from the internet and put it in but I don’t think TC recognized it 
TouchChatHD is the first app I try with my nonverbal or limited verbal special education students. It’s very intuitive and helps reduce frustration by assisting navigation for new users. For example, if a person presses the eat button, it automatically (without extra programming) jumps to the food home page to select the food. It has lots of levels for all types of AAC users.
My only complaints would be:
1)The vocabulary layout is not consistent across levels so that if a user is ready to progress to a level with more robust vocabulary and buttons, the layout of main buttons changes drastically, which makes the user relearn basic motor patterns. For example the “home” button may move from the bottom corner to the top corner or the “clear button moves from the lower bottom corner to the opposite top corner.
2) The app saves an image of the logo to the device’s camera roll every day the app is used. This is a minor annoyance, but I have never seen another app do this and it gets old deleting the logo every day.
I like using. It’s useful as I cannot talk but since the last update the interrupt function has stopped working. So if you accidentally hit the speak button or speech display bar a second time you and whoever you are with has to listen to the whole message again. You can hit the home button and close the app but then when you come back to the app it will continue what it did not finish. Can you bring back the interrupt?
TouchChat with word power is versatile and very intuitive. Every single teacher of students using it love it because it is easy to find icon locations and very little programming is needed because the vocabulary layout mimics naturally occurring speech. So much easier to use than Proloquo2Go. My students are initiating so much more communication with TouchChat.
With the latest update unable to use program when picking pictures no longer jumps to the pages and there is no sound I have tested the voice under page editor that work unable to find troubleshooting under help page HELP PLEASE
Please fix the glitches from the newest update! Screen freezes and then turns blank. My son relies on this app for communication and this is incredibly frustrating!
Disappointed with this purchase as it only works on the iPad. For the price there are better apps out there that only cost a little more that are compatible across multiple devices and have way better reviews. Also the lack of the picture in addition to the word going up into the sentence strip is a major drawback.
When I did deal with Customer Service they were less than helpful.
A whole new way to communicate. Quick Talk is designed to be the most flexible, accessible, and affordable AAC solution available.
We are excited about the completely new design of Quick Talk AAC! Working with educators, therapists, engineers, parents, and individuals who are non-verbal, we have developed a communication that anyone can use! Quick Talk was designed with a simple mission - to change the world by giving a voice to those who cannot speak for themselves. Our goal is to make it as quick as possible for you to talk. We made this app as mobile, simple, and flexible as possible, so for one small fee you can have everything you need to communicate. Don't spend your time setting up; spend your time talking!
Quick Talk AAC has been effectively used by individuals with autism, down syndrome, cerebral palsy, apraxia, and other special needs, both at home and in a school environment. There is a huge need for an assistive technology that can equip those who are non-verbal with the ability to communicate. Typical Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) devices and apps are either too expensive or too complicated. We have set out to change this by providing an affordable solution to everyone with access to iPad, iPhone, or iPod Touch. We developed Quick Talk with the advice and guidance from experts in speech therapy, educators, and individuals who use AAC devices to pack it full of features, while keeping simplicity and cost in mind. The outcome is a one-of-a-kind app that we believe will change many lives.
We believe Quick Talk is going to make a huge difference in peoples' lives and are committed to its continual improvement. Please email us any suggestions you may have about how we can further improve Quick Talk as we take your feedback seriously.
Key Quick Talk AAC Features:
** Easy to Use Design - easy to navigate, great to look at, and fun to use
** 50 high quality voices from 24 languages to choose from (male and female)
** Typing Mode - learns your favorite words and phrases as you type
** Sentence Strip to combine your words and phrases using both your personal audio and text-to-speech voice (iPad)
** Backup feature that allows you to save, share or transfer your profiles easily
** Profiles allow for multiple users and/or setups
** Includes Smarty Symbols library of 11,000 symbols developed by a licensed Speech-Language Pathologist
** Quick access to Yes/No from every screen
** Ability to personalize all Profiles, Categories, and Pages with personal
** Create pages with 2-8 speech buttons each to expand your options
** Create unlimited profiles, categories, and pages and personalize them with pictures, Text-to-Speech, or Personal Audio
** Easy navigation options for anyone to use
Icons from icons8
About Digital Scribbler, Inc
Founded by Russ Ewell, Digital Scribbler is a technology company, whose "built in the garage" origin story typifies Silicon Valley. This garage is now more mentality than place. It is a mindset which says, "If we can dream it, we can build it." We dreamed of creating an affordable communication app, which was capable of giving the verbally challenged a voice. It needed to be mobile, simple, and flexible. Quick Talk AAC was the result, and it has been helping those in silence speak ever since.
Need more improvement
Exactly what my autistic child needs, who has stronger reading skills than expressive skills. As promised, it's simple, quick to talk, and gives the user the option to create complete sentences which my child can read aloud to that other apps don't have. But, there are too many limitations/glitches:
1. Pls remove "new page" label from the Name, Caption, Text-to-Speech fields when adding a New Category, New Page, New Button. Or fade it out and allow us to write over it (eg: Netflix search field). It's a pain to have to backspace or select all/delete when adding info to this page.
2. Please add a delete option that can delete everything in the Name, Caption, Text-to-Speech fields such as creating a "x" delete button.
3. Please include a "Back" or "Cancel" button on the edit pages of the New Category, New Page, and New Button so that I have the option to change my mind about not saving the new changes or not adding a new category/page/button. The only way to back out of the edit page is to hit "save" which then kicks me out of the app completely.
4. Plus, if I don't have any info added to the Name, Caption, Text-to-Speech fields, the app crashes.
5. Every time I try to add a New Category, the app crashes. I have only created 3 categories and the app is already having a hard time handling extras.
6. Please give us an option to choose Not to create categories.
7. Please add an option to copy and paste a Button from one category to another category.
8. Please give user the option to "save to icloud" so that we don't lose all the info we have created when our device crashes, when we change to a new device, when we want to add a new device. Example, the option to use my child's iPod or my iPhone and not carry the bulky iPad with us on trips, and not forced to recreate the content in order to do that.
Thank you for your consideration. I am willing to pay extra for the requested updates.
A great and simple to use app!!
The ability to communicate is an essential life skill to have. It is important for my students with communication difficulties to be able to communicate basic needs and wants independently. It is also important for my students to have engaging conversations with their peers. Quick Talk facilitates this experience where my students can do both.
My students with low muscle tone and who have trouble coordinating the muscles find the two-option layout in Quick Talk easier to access and navigate information independently. The students begin by personalizing their Quick Talk settings, practice accessing their desired information with help and then work towards accessing the information on their own.
Quick Talk also facilitates a natural flow of conversation between peers and staff. Some students won't stay long enough to hear what the student with communication difficulties has to say. Using Quick Talk, students can access their information faster, allowing the students to engage in longer conversations.
The arrows on the screen are a helpful visual tool for the students to be able o now where to navigate throughout Quick Talk. Great app!!
A must-have for SLP's
I love this app! As a speech-language pathologist I've seen many AAC apps and this is the first that I've been able to use within minutes. It took me about 5 minutes to learn how to program the device and use it. I can use it with several of the students on my caseload, all with varying degrees of communication challenges, for Yes/No questions, simple choices, inclusion during circle times, classroom participation, and more. I don't have to switch devices or apps, I can just use Quick Talk. The teachers are able to program this app easily and it doesn't take several training sessions to implement use with their students. This app is able to bridge the gap between communicating basic wants and needs and complex phrases/sentences. It's the quickest way for providing someone with quick, functional communication.
High Hopes Here
I am a 20 year old college student, who has been friends with, and has worked with children/young adults who are verbally challenged with special needs for over 10 years. Using this app the last few days, I am impressed with the extreme amount of customizability. I can really see this becoming my friends main way of communication, in the palm of his hand! I am very hopeful for this app to be a huge relief in communication! Already the last 3 days we have been able to communicate much quicker and much easier, smiling every time we customize a new box!