This Is A Classroom Dream Come True 

I've used MyTalkTools in my classroom for a long time and love it. In fact, it just keeps getting better because the company listens to its users and keeps adding features. MyTalk is perfect for teaching and assessing my students on the lowest one percent level. They are slow learners but can and do learn. 

As a music teacher, MyTalkTools is the only app that can make DJs and VJs out of any student who can select by eye gaze or touch. Via Apple TV add the image or video to an LCD screen and pump the sound through a sound system. Cool! 

Additionally MyTalk can mimic the alternate assessment my state has where there are three answers and if a student selects the incorrect answer, the choice disapears allowing the student to try again from two choices. Naturally students give an iPad more attention than the boaring black and white line drawings used for testing. 

At one school show I programmed all the comments that an MC would say so students could run the show with a touch of a finger. The acapela voice was so good that someone asked who the MC was when she watched the show on closed circuit TV. The cameraman didn't pick up the students so she didn't have an idea is was students using MyTalkTools! 

I've even made a board for myself in case of the event that one day I might need to communicate let's say where pain is but can't talk. As magical as it sounds, people with a degenerative condition can "bank" their voice for the future. 

The free version will give you an idea of if it's for you. Because MyTalkTools has so many features there is a learning curve but the tutorials are well made. Start small and your find before long, you will be full of implimentation ideas. Good luck and have fun! 
 

June 2016 Update 

MyTalkTools had continued to listen to its users through the years. There are more features than ever and they are easier to use. To the novice MyTalkTools may not look like much from its simple framework. The beauty is the simplicity of use for the board creator and the end user. Once the basics are mastered there are lots of attribuites to explore. 

I love being able to save units of work throughout the school year and return to them later with the option to edit them to meet new students needs. 

More updates! MyTalkTools can mimic the expensive, dangerous (infrared) eye gaze systems (they can cause seizures) by using the camera that faces the user to "look" for eyes dwelling on a cell or "looking" for an eye wink movement to use as a mouse click. It has been working for my students with severe cognitive disabilities and physical challenges. They get SO excited then they can actually control something. Note that one needs good lighting and a background that isn't busy visually. MyTalkTools is still my go to tool in my classroom. 