I am working with a 9 year old who has an iPad with the TouchChat application on it. I see her for outside private speech therapy. Her device is owned by school and they are the sole programmers of the device. It appears that they deleted the WordPower42 vocabulary in order to use the cells/grid to program in their own words. Some of the words include: go, away, different, want, more, not, yes, no, feel, feelings, eat, drink. She has 2 buttons that open up to fringe vocabulary: drink—>juice, water; sensory—>music, squeezes. There is no “clear” button. There are no colors for the backgrounds of the cells. Dad and her outside therapy team including myself would like to add additional vocabulary to her device as well as vocabulary that will allow her to use her device for a variety of communicative functions (greetings, answering personal questions, commenting, directing others). My clinical recommendation is to use the actual WordPower42 vocabulary pageset that is part of the TouchChat application. However, I want to do this in the most positive and collaborative way. I would like to have as much research, evidence, and data to support my recommendation. I’m just wondering if anyone else has come across this (using TouchChat as a means for an electronic custom core board) or have done this themselves and could provide me some insight as to the benefits of doing this. Does anyone have any research supporting the TouchChat vocabularies and how they were designed? Sorry, I don't have time to write you as detailed a reply as I'd like but here are my initial thoughts: So they've deleted all of the vocabulary from TouchChat and limited her to just 10 buttons? Is that right? Is there a school SLP involved that you can collaborate with? Was she able to access the buttons on the original page set up? How was she using it? It sounds like if you are recommending that she continue using WP42 setup that you feel that she was using it ok, or that she can learn to use it, so I agree that she should continue with that.Typically, you would choose number of buttons on a page based on what person can see and physically access NOT based on receptive or cognitive ability. Yes, starting with core vocabulary is a great, fantastic, fabulous idea. Yes yes yes to core! By teaching core vocabulary, you're teaching your client to be able to communicate about anything and that is so powerful! By limiting her to just 10 or so buttons, she has less opportunity to communicate, she has less things to communicate about and you're not teaching sentence construction, only single words. It's always best to start with MORE vocabulary than you think your student knows and then build up. Think about it-- when we speak to typically developing children, we don't limit ourselves to only speaking about 10 different items. We keep our sentences simple and concrete but we speak using a range of vocabulary. By repeating over and over, children learn. The same way, a child with AAC needs to have access to a range of vocabulary words and see utterances modelled for them over and over. Another reason to start with a bigger page setup like the 42 button one, is because AAC users will learn the location of buttons and remember them which takes some of the cognitive load off of using a device. If your students only starts with 10 buttons, then when she learns those and they expand to 20, all the buttons will change place and she will need to learn them all over again. That would be like someone changing the letters on your keyboard -- you would need to spend so much time looking for they keys that it would detract from your message. Look up LAMP -- language acquisition through motor planning -- for more info. on this.
If they think that 42 buttons are somehow overwhelming, you can "hide" buttons in the settings. WordPower for TouchChat was developed by Nancy Inman, who is an SLP who specializes in AAC. The pages are set up to allow the user to create novel utterances with core vocabulary.
When I have a minute, I will send you some resources. Some places where I would start: praacticalaac.org She has 5 tangible items she can request and about 10 core vocabulary just thrown about the device. It is not a designated vocabulary set that TouchChat has. The problem we have right now is the school team. They are in charge of the device and have programmed this. I had access for a month and added more tangible items because her cognitive level is very low compared to the core vocab. When trying to collaborate with the school SLP, we have had a VERY hard time establishing a working relationship. We have this school SLP for a few clients in our clinic and she has made it virtually impossible to get anything done together. She seems to have a power complex that is effecting the clients in general. We have parents involved and have made it clear to them that we do not recommend with this vocabulary set. The SLP "expanded" her vocabulary back in September but also removed many preferred items and added strange core vocabulary such as "not" and "already". Those to me seemed like completely unnecessary additions since she is not independently or consistently using any core vocabulary besides "want" and sometimes "eat" Hi guys! I’m trying to help a mom fix the pronunciation of a word on her touchchat device. (It’s teletherapy so I can’t play around it with myself unfortunately... I feel like I just need to get my hands on it and do some trial and error) Anyway, we’re trying to get it to more accurately pronounce “dada” (like what a little kid would call their dad.) As is it comes out sounding like the inflection of ‘ta-da!’ I’ve suggested lots of other vowel combos and spellings but no luck. Any help would be appreciated! I even had mom copy and paste the IPA symbol from the internet and put it in but I don’t think TC recognized it 