A must have speech device 

The Proloquo2Go app on my son device is the best app you can get,with my son having Down Syndrome & Kleinfelter Syndrome it’s a double whammy when it comes to speech as both disabilities have speech problems and this device with the app helps my son a lot I’m able to add things like taking a picture of his mom,dad ,brothers and sister with there names you can take your own pictures and add them and pick a voice to go with it ,I even added our phone number to our pictures and added our address ,you can also delete items on there you know they will or may not use which I have done I’ve also added certain favorite snacks my son likes,foods,people and so on its very easy to use once you get the hang of we’re what goes and what each item is under you can even pick the amount of pictures you want on ease grid and the size as well ,I am so glad my sons speech therapist she took care of all the paper work for my sons insurance to cover his device ,the device also comes with a strong rugged case with a stand which opens and closes and alphas a strong handle and 2 different length straps so you can wear the device with the app across your body so you don’t loose it,I highly recommend this device with the proloquo2go app for all kids and adults with Speech problems it has helped my son a lot he doesn’t get frustrated no more when you cannot understand what he says or to others. 

Great app! 

Happy that such an app exists. Our toddler who we suspected to be on the spectrum before his second birthday has been using this app for about the past 6 months. He turned three not long ago and has been learning how to communicate using the app with the help of his therapists. I really like that it can be customized for early learners such as my toddler. The only reason I give it four stars is because he uses this app on the iPad, but for some reason he has trouble swiping up/down for some reason even after we try to show him over and over again. We were told it’s probably a fine motor issue. For now, we all swipe the page for him to access the rest of his icons. I would love it if the ability to swipe left to right were included since he is able to do that with no problem. 

Crucial app 

My granddaughter is essentially non-verbal. For years, 11 to be exact, we have tried to give her a voice. We thought because she can repeat that she would eventually began to talk. To our dismay it did not happen. Finally with the advice from a girlfriend I decided she needed a communication device. I purchased a iPad mini and loaded Proloquo2Go on it. She is picking it up fairly well to my delight. This program on the recommended intermediate is so expansive. I love how you can customize it. I wish I had done this years ago because we would be on a better speech ground by now. Please to all who have similar circumstances do not delay whether the child has speech or not make the worthwhile purchase of a speech program. This program is certainly affordable and can be utilized into adulthood!! 

Very simple to manage! 

This app is extremely versatile. You can use a library of pictures, take pictures from within the app, and even choose photos from your device’s album. There are multiple voices avail which you can customize the characteristics of each. You can make it as simple or complex as you want. We started with just a few icons for our cognitively disabled son and gradually increased the grid to (currently) like 6x8 grid of icons. He knows it’s layout better than we do. 

This is an awesome app with awesome support both through developer and a Facebook users support page! I highly recommend this app. 

If you feel your iPad is not loud enough with a protective case, there are amplified iPad cases you can buy elsewhere. 

Best communication app available 

I use the app I totally recommend it! The app is the best one out there for communication and has so many voices you can add your own images other ones I’ve seen the voices are seoprate the app is easy to navigate and figure out you can add words change pronounces which I love you can add folders which is helped me figure out were all of the things are though. I use this to communicate becuase I cant speak its the perfect app though not that expensive compared to the other ones I’ve see. The only thing I wish that I could turn off is the news for the app since it drives me crazy to get notifications about new update please make a setting to turn that off other than that it’s good app 

So versatile in helping my loved one communicate! 

My niece has had Proloquo2Go since she was 5, heading in to kindergarten. She is now 14, ready to start high school. At 5 years old, this app helped her communicate her wants and spared all of us the frustration of playing 20 questions in order to figure out what she needed or wanted. It has only grown since then. It has helped her speech. She often tries to repeat what she has made it say for her. Lately, she types into the app and listens to it speak what she has typed. She loves telling me what to add to it and what pictures she wants used for each button. Proloquo2Go is one of her best tools that assist her speech and communication. Thank you! 

A Positive Behavior Modifier and Freedom Giver 

As a multi-disabled woman who is nonverbal, deaf, partially blind, mild autistic and slightly physically disabled, I found this app, Proloquo2Go a helpful in modifying my behavior to match my age in a positive way and liberates me from using communication partner (the interpreter) by giving me the degree of freedom to communicate with the hearing people while I am on trip for various activities such as shopping. This app was very helpful in preparing me for open our world to prove that I can freely communicate with whoever as I am on go. I believe this app has given me the increased degree of independence of communication and social time. It has given me many positive avenues for shaping my future life through undergo a positive behavior modification and positive social time. 

A voice for K. 

We have been using this app for 7 years and love it! We appreciate how easy it is to program and use. I researched for several months before making the purchase for home use. This was the highest recommended at the time. Our son is 20 and non verbal unless prompted to say something. He quickly figured out he could make food and beverage choices which was very motivating for him. We even have it programmed for fast food choices. He also uses it to select leisure activity choices. 

I highly recommend this app! Our previous device was heavy, slow to start and cost $7,000. The iPad, app and protective case was well under $1,000. 

  

Life Changing 

I am a verbal autistic and schizophrenia-spectrum college student who is more and more frequently losing speech and has what appears to be progressive cognitive disability. Proloquo2Go has been a life changer. I frequently use it to talk to my friends over Discord by constructing my messages on it and reading replies on a different device. I also use it to talk to my roommates, and I'm slowly getting the courage to use it in more and more situations. My only criticism is I wish it had a dark mode or a dimmer background, since the white hurts my eyes and exacerbates my tics after a while. Highly recommend, worth every penny. 

Autistic adult 

I am an autistic woman who was originally nonverbal and forced to speak in different therapies. They would drill me to repeat different phrases but I felt like I was saying nothing because I was just repeating what other people wanted me to say. I use all of the different assistiveware apps in different communication situations. They listened to autistic people and converted our natural dialect and communications into apps that really work for us. For the first time since I was seven years old, I finally found my authentic autistic voice. I am myself again. Thank you autistic community and thank you assistiveware. 